<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="ont-req-uses">
  <title>Intended uses</title>

  <body>
    <p>There are several use cases motivating the current modelling exercise.
    This section briefly briefly describes them.</p>

    <section><title>Maintenance of the LAM description</title><p>Currently LAM
    is maintained as a set of Word and Excel documents, this makes the editing
    cumbersome and most importantly error prone. Making references to formal
    properties in CDM ontology, manually tracking rules and dependencies
    between LAM elements becomes increasingly difficult as it becomes larger.
    Moreover, sharing the documents, collecting input and the interaction with
    stakeholders and partners becomes difficult. </p><p>There is a need for
    providing an interactive documentation of Legal Analysis Methodology,
    which should include a complete description of document classes,
    properties, metadata and constraints; and enable an easy navigation based
    on the dependencies between them. This interactive documentation should
    also enable collecting feedback, corrections and suggestions for
    improvement on any part of the methodology. It should serve as the main
    point of access for the LAM for consultation purposes for both experts and
    lay people. </p></section>

    <section><title>Modelling and structuring LAM
    description</title><p>Currently LAM is described in informal manner,
    therefore it is not possible to automate or implement any automated
    processes relying on it. To enable automatisation of any sort, the domain
    model must be created first and formalised in a machine readable format.
    The model provides a vocabulary for describing LAM concepts and the
    structural connections between them. </p><p>The modelling need is situated
    at two levels of abstraction or perhaps even two meta-levels. First, the
    LAM documentation covers descriptions of classes of legal documents, so
    there is a need to formalise these descriptions, lets call it Legal
    Document definition model. Second, there is a need to formalise how the
    descriptions of classes should be structured; let's call it the LAM
    meta-model.</p></section>

    <section><title>Consistency checking of the LAM description </title><p>It
    is not easy to verify whether the document class is consistent with other
    classes and properties described in the model. The model should enable
    performing tests to determine if the data has any internal conflicts. The
    exact type of conflicts is not determined at this point and they may refer
    to redundancy, cycles, or contradiction detection. </p></section>

    <section><title>Automatic validation and curation of the document
    descriptions</title><p>The legal document descriptions instantiating LAM
    model should be conform to model instantiation rules and fit specific data
    shapes. The model should enable automatic verification and validation of
    instance data. </p><p>In a similar manner, it should be possible to
    derive, for invalid documents, what parts need to be modified in order to
    correct the description. </p></section>
  </body>
</topic>
