<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="req-intro">
  <title>Introduction</title>

  <body>
    <p>This document provides the preliminary requirements specification for
    developing an ontology for the EUR-Lex Legal Analysis Methodology.</p>

    <p/>
  </body>

  <topic id="req-intro-2">
    <title>Context</title>

    <body>
      <p>EUR-Lex legal analysis methodology (LAM) presents and describes the
      use of metadata elements that are relevant for the legal and documentary
      analysis of the EUR-Lex website's content.</p>

      <p>The metadata elements employed in LAM are taken from the Common Data
      Model (CDM) of the CELLAR repository of the Publications Office.</p>

      <p>CELLAR is an electronic database which contains the documents and
      their related metadata diffused on one of the websites of the
      Publications Office. The CDM is an ontology that describes the concepts
      and relationships (properties/elements) that can exist for the data
      stored in the CELLAR.</p>

      <p>LAM documentation contains descriptions of classes of legal documents
      and a selection of metadata suitable for describing each document class.
      LAM aims at facilitating the understanding and the use of relevant CDM
      properties.</p>

      <p>LAM gives some basic Definition for the metadata elements, determines
      their cardinality and lists the related properties. It also gives some
      methodological rules concerning the use of the elements in different
      contexts during the legal analysis. It also describes which kind of data
      has to be used when filling in the metadata elements. If a metadata
      element has to be completed with a value coming from a controlled
      vocabulary, it is indicated. If there is no indication, it means that
      the metadata element can be filled in with free text.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>

  <topic id="req-intro-3">
    <title>Purpose</title>

    <body>
      <p>This document aims at analysing and formulating the requirements of
      the LAM team regarding the data model mainly and potential future
      applications. It also provides an approach for transposing the LAM from
      a plain text documentation into structured data with semi-formal and
      formal underpinning.</p>

      <p>The benefit of having the LAM represented in a structured form is
      enabling automation of multiple processes, such as document
      classification, metadata validation, metadata enrichment, which
      currently are performed manually by the OP staff or by external
      contractors. Such an automation can lead to significant reductions of
      cost and reduce the time needed for performing these processes.</p>

      <p>This document does not intend to provide a detailed functional
      specification for every envisaged element but rather provide a general
      direction and describe the path for reaching different business and
      technical objectives. The main concern, at this stage is to describe how
      a LAM ontology can be created starting from the current state of affairs
      presented elsewhere in this document.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>

  <topic id="req-intro-5">
    <title>Data model scope</title>

    <body>
      <p>LAM data model should support accounts for the following types of
      information. </p>

      <ul>
        <li>description of legal document classes<p/><ul>
            <li>human readable descriptions</li>

            <li>correspondences to other classifications (CELEX/ELI, CDM,
            ResourceType etc. ) as (a) mappings and as (b) code grammars</li>

            <li>publication metadata</li>
          </ul></li>

        <li>description of document metadata</li>

        <li>description of the metadata annotations (property
        annotations)</li>

        <li>description of LD classification rules (fields to
        automatically/manually classify LDs)</li>

        <li>description of class shapes i.e. constraints on how the class is
        instantiated<ul>
            <li>e.g. specific property value, cardinality constraints, range
            class, etc.</li>
          </ul></li>

        <li>descriptions of LD classes and LD property groupings (table of
        contents in the LAM word document and templates in the LAM webApp
        description)</li>
      </ul>
    </body>
  </topic>

  <topic id="req-intro-4">
    <title>Document Conventions</title>

    <body>
      <p>Application profile - ...</p>

      <p>LAM model …</p>

      <p>LA team, LA sector - OP C2 003</p>

      <p>Model …</p>

      <p>Ontology ...</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
