<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="ap-comformance-statement">
  <title>Conformance statement</title>

  <body>
    <section><title>Provider requirements</title><p>In order to conform to
    this application profile an application must be able to provide data
    assets that:</p><ul>
        <li>comprise statements using at least the mandatory classes and
        properties.</li>

        <li>in addition, any of the recommended and optional properties and
        classes may be provided. </li>

        <li>employ values from the specified controlled vocabularies on
        properties with restricted value ranges. Additional controlled
        vocabularies may be used on properties with unrestricted value
        ranges.</li>
      </ul></section>

    <section><title>Receiver requirements</title><p>In order to conform to
    this application profile an application that receives a compliant data
    asset must be able to:</p><ul>
        <li>process information for all mandatory classes and optionally for
        recommended and optional classes.</li>

        <li>process information for all mandatory properties and optionally
        for recommended and optional properties.</li>

        <li>process information for all controlled vocabularies.</li>
      </ul>"processing" means that receivers must accept incoming data and
    transparently provide these data to applications and services. It does
    neither imply nor prescribe what applications and services finally do with
    the data (parse, convert, store, make searchable, display to users,
    etc.).</section>
  </body>
</topic>
