<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="ap-terminology">
  <title>Terminology used</title>

  <body>
    <p>In the following sections, classes and properties are grouped under
    headings "mandatory", "recommended" and "optional". These terms have the
    following meaning.</p>

    <ul>
      <li><term>Mandatory class</term>: a receiver of data MUST be able to
      process information about instances of the class; a sender of data MUST
      provide information about instances of the class.</li>

      <li><term>Recommended class</term>: a receiver of data MUST be able to
      process information about instances of the class; a sender of data MUST
      provide information about instances of the class, if it is
      available.</li>

      <li><term>Optional class</term>: a receiver MUST be able to process
      information about instances of the class; a sender MAY provide the
      information but is not obliged to do so.</li>

      <li><term>Mandatory property</term>: a receiver MUST be able to process
      the information for that property; a sender MUST provide the information
      for that property.</li>

      <li><term>Recommended property</term>: a receiver MUST be able to
      process the information for that property; a sender SHOULD provide the
      information for that property if it is available.</li>

      <li><term>Optional property</term>: a receiver MUST be able to process
      the information for that property; a sender MAY provide the information
      for that property but is not obliged to do so.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>The meaning of the terms MUST, MUST NOT, SHOULD and MAY in this section
    and in the following sections are as defined in RFC 2119<fn>IETF. RFC
    2119. Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels. <xref
    format="html" href="http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt"
    scope="external">http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt</xref></fn>.</p>

    <p>In the given context, the term "processing" means that receivers must
    accept incoming data and transparently provide these data to applications
    and services. It does neither imply nor prescribe what applications and
    services finally do with the data (parse, convert, store, make searchable,
    display to users, etc.).</p>
  </body>
</topic>
