<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="excel-structure">
  <title>Worksheet structure</title>

  <body>
    <p>The excel file contains five worksheets: two of them define classes,
    two of them define properties and one defines namespace prefix mappings.
    The worksheet is composed of rows and columns. The rows roughly correspond
    to descriptions of an identifiable entity/element, the columns correspond
    to predicates (properties) in such descriptions while the cell values to
    predicate objects. In every worksheet, the first row is the header row.
    Each header cell denotes how the values in the corresponding columns
    should be interpreted and processed (predicate specification). Some
    denotations, as we will see below, signify/represent (a) plain labels, (b)
    reference keys described in another worksheet, (c) or encodings of
    functional links between reference keys. The rest of the non empty rows
    represent distinct definitions comprising value statements in all or most
    of the columns.</p>

    <p>The columns that represent plain labels, provided lower case, serve a
    descriptive purpose and most of the time the transformation script uses
    them as such without much additional processing. Examples of such columns
    can be found in "LAM metadata worksheet" which contains headers such as
    "Code", "controlled value property", "annotation1" etc.</p>

    <p>The columns that signify reference keys, provided in upper case, are
    richer in meaning, which is provided in another worksheet. These sort of
    columns are used in class definitions only, where the keys in the column
    header function as references to property definitions. The transformation
    script takes into consideration the definition linked to the reference key
    and any additional relations and constraints when processing the column
    values. Examples of such columns can be found in "Classes Complete"
    worksheet which contains headers such as "RJ_NEW", "CC", "IF", "EV"
    etc.</p>

    <p>The columns that encode <term>functional links</term> between reference
    keys (using <term>function notation</term>), provided in upper case and
    round brackets, signify a second order descriptions. They are used for
    encoding annotations of values provided in another columns. For example
    the pair of columns "EV" and "ANN_COD(EV)" means that the column "EV"
    contributes to the description identified at the level of a row whereas
    the column "ANN_COD(EV)" further extends the description provided by the
    column "EV" in the form of an annotation. The convention for such
    notations is <i>"KEY1(KEY2)"</i>, where <i>KEY1</i> acts as a functor
    applied to <i>KEY2</i>; we read it "KEY1 of KEY2" or "annotation of KEY2
    with KEY1". The transformation script processes such column pairs in a
    special manner tracking two levels of description identification, at the
    level of the row and at the level of column value, taking into
    consideration the definition linked to the reference keys, the link
    between the reference keys and the implied constraints and
    relationships.</p>

    <p>The worksheet cells, which are slots formed at the intersection of a
    row and a column provide, the values filling those slots. We distinguish
    few kinds of cell values each controlled by a set of conventions. The
    value types are as follows:</p>

    <section><ul>
        <li>Free text literal</li>

        <li>Short URI notation</li>

        <li>Controlled value</li>
      </ul><p>The free text literals are Unicode<fn>The Unicode Standard,
    Version 3, The Unicode Consortium, Addison-Wesley, 2000. <xref
    format="html" href="http://www.unicode.org/unicode/standard/versions/"
    scope="external">http://www.unicode.org/unicode/standard/versions/</xref>
    </fn> strings which should be in Normal Form C<fn> Unicode Normalization
    Forms, Unicode Standard Annex #15, Mark Davis, Martin Dürst. <xref
    format="html" href="http://www.unicode.org/unicode/reports/tr15/%20"
    scope="external">http://www.unicode.org/unicode/reports/tr15/
    </xref></fn>. The intended meaning of short URI notation is specified by
    RFC 3986 on Uniform Resource Identifiers<fn>Berners-Lee, Fielding and
    Masinter (2005), RFC 3986 - Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic
    Syntax. <xref format="html" href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986"
    scope="external">https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986</xref></fn>. The
    expected form is short reference URI <i>"prefix:ID",</i> where the prefix
    (base URI) is formally defined in the document. The short URI form is
    preferred to absolute (resolved) form URI, the latter being discouraged
    form usage, nonetheless the transformation script is able to identify and
    process them as accordingly. Both, the free text literals and the short
    URI notations can be used as either (a) values of properties (denoted by
    the column header) or (b) as property constraint definitions. The
    interpretation depends of the column function described below. </p><p>The
    last type of values, the controlled values, refer to are a convention of
    specifying cardinality constraints in the class definitions. This means
    that the cells with controlled values can not be interpreted as property
    values but serve only as property constraints. The conventions for
    cardinality constraints in LAM project are provided in the table
    below.</p><table id="caardinality-constraint">
        <title>Cardinality constraint conventions</title>

        <tgroup cols="4">
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Name</entry>

              <entry>Cell value</entry>

              <entry>Cardinality meaning</entry>

              <entry>Alternative cell values</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>

          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>mandatory</entry>

              <entry>Y</entry>

              <entry>1..*</entry>

              <entry>yes, y, according to text</entry>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry>mandatory unique</entry>

              <entry>YU</entry>

              <entry>1..1</entry>

              <entry/>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry>optional</entry>

              <entry>O</entry>

              <entry>0..*</entry>

              <entry/>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry>optional unique</entry>

              <entry>OU</entry>

              <entry>0..1</entry>

              <entry/>
            </row>

            <row>
              <entry>forbidden</entry>

              <entry>N, &lt;empty cell&gt;</entry>

              <entry>0..0</entry>

              <entry>no, n</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table><p>The worksheet cells can contain <term>commented
    values</term>. It means that a cell can contain a value (literal, URi or
    controlled) and in addition a comment on that value. The value is
    separated from the comment by the pipe (|) character like this: "<i>value
    | comment</i>". The transformation script uses the pipe character for
    detecting commented values, and so this character should not be used for
    any other purpose. </p><p>The worksheet cells can contain <term>multiple
    values</term>. The new value separator is the new line character (CR/LF).
    This means that every new line of the cell will be interpreted as a new
    value for the property indicated by the column header.</p></section>

    <section><title id="lam-class-definition">LAM class definition
    worksheet</title><p>The worksheet defining LAM classes plays central role
    in the LAM project as it defines the document classes used in the legal
    analysis methodology. It comprises of almost a hundred columns, which can
    be grouped according to meaning and function they play in class
    definitions. We distinguish the following functions:
    <i>identification</i>, <i>description</i>, <i>mappings </i>to other
    classifications and <i>property constraints</i>. All the columns are
    headed with reference keys defined in the worksheet "LAM metadata"
    described below.</p><p>The URI column provides an universal identifier (as
    the title suggests) for the row with values of the form
    <i>"prefix:ID"</i>. The prefix is defined in the prefix worksheet,
    described below, and the ID part is automatically generated.</p><p>The
    <i>description</i> columns, containing examples, keywords, comments etc.,
    represent human readable class descriptions. Their values essentially are
    simple text literals. The <i>mapping</i> columns provide correspondences
    between LAM classes and other classifications, in this case the CDM
    ontology, the Resource Type authority table, and CELEX classification.
    These mappings to other classifications are intended for manually or
    eventually automatically determine and/or validate the LAM class to which
    a legal document belongs. </p><p>The rest of the columns represent
    <i>property constraints</i>. In the context of class definition, property
    constraints mean that instances of the defined class must respect the
    specified constraint. The constraints are provided either as a literal
    value, URI or cardinality specification (see <xref
    href="#./caardinality-constraint">table above</xref>). In case of literal
    or URI values, the constraints mean that the instances of the class being
    defined must provide property statements with exactly same values. If
    there are multiple values, then the default interpretation is that of
    alternative values either of which should be found among those provided in
    the instance data. In case of cardinality specifications, the
    interpretation is on the number of times a property is employed for a
    given instance. For example, mandatory properties must be employed once or
    multiple times, having the minimum cardinality set to one, while optional
    unique properties may be employed at most once with minimum cardinality
    set to zero and maximum to one. The cardinality constraints do not provide
    any indications about the range of values used of a given property.
    </p><p>Some constraints headed by a function notation represent annotation
    constraints on a property. For example the column "EV" (date of end of
    validity) is annotated with "ANN_COD" (annotation: comment on date) column
    written as "ANN_COD(EV)". The values in this column represent cardinality
    constraints on the comment on date property. For example if there is a "O"
    value provided in "ANN_COD(EV)" column then, whenever there is an end of
    date property employed on an instance then, that value, may optionally be
    annotated with a comment on date. </p>The last three columns
    "Classification level 1" to "Classification level 3" provide a
    classification structure for the defined documents as originally specified
    in the LAM documentation.</section>

    <section><title>LAM property definition worksheet </title><p>The LAM
    property definition worksheet defines the meaning to the columns used in
    the class definition worksheet(s). As mentioned in the introduction above,
    the columns roughly correspond to predicates/properties in the LAM model
    and are locally identified by a unique "Code" (usually in capital
    letters). The same codes are used as a reference values in the column
    headers of the class definition worksheet indicating which property shall
    be used from the model for each column. The "Code" is used to generate the
    LAM property URI used in the formal statements.</p><p>The property
    definition worksheet is structured as follows. The "Label" column provides
    a human friendly property title; the "Definition" provides a human
    readable property meaning. "Analytical methodology" is a description of
    how the property contributes to the LAM practice. "Specific cases" and
    "Comments" provide examples, exceptions and additional comments related to
    property usage. </p><p>The "property" column specifies URI of the
    equivalent property formally defined in CDM ontology (other namespaces are
    also accepted). If there is a range constraint to, for example, a
    controlled vocabulary then it is indicated in the "controlled value
    property". </p><p>As mentioned, in the description of the <xref
    href="#excel-structure/lam-class-definition">LAM class definition
    worksheet</xref>, some CDM properties are annotated to provide extra
    information. The columns "annotation_1" to "annotation_7" specify which
    CDM annotation properties may be used for the defined property. Columns
    "controlled value_annotation_1" to "controlled value_annotation_7" provide
    range constraints on the corresponding property. The values in columns
    "annotation_11" to "annotation_71" are automatically generated and do not
    provide any additional information, but play a technical role for the
    transformation script, providing a mapping between the URI of the CDM
    property and the URI of the LAM property. The translation pairs are
    provided in an auxiliary "mappings" worksheet.</p><p>The last two columns
    "Classification level 1" and "Classification level 2" provide a
    classification structure for the defined properties as originally
    specified in the LAM documentation.</p></section>

    <section><title>CELEX class definition worksheet</title><p/></section>

    <section><title>CELEX property definition worksheet</title><p>This
    worksheet, just like the one for LAM propoerties, defines a set of
    properties used in CELEX class definition. </p></section>

    <section><title>Namespace prefix definition worksheet</title><p>This
    worksheet provides a mapping between the LAM property definitions and CDM
    ontology (or another namespace). This worksheet is auxiliary and has a
    technical role aiding the transformation script. The worksheet is composed
    of two columns, first the URI of the CDM ontology and the second one the
    URI of the LAM property. </p></section>
  </body>
</topic>
