<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="ap-multilingualism">
  <title>Multilingual aspects</title>

  <body>
    <p><term>Multilingual aspects</term> related to this Application Profile
    concern all properties whose contents are expressed as strings with
    human-readable text. Wherever such properties are used, the string values
    are of one of two types:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>The string is free text. Examples are descriptions and labels. Such
      text may be translated into several languages.</li>

      <li>The string is an appellation of a "named entity". Examples are names
      of organisations or persons. These names may have parallel versions in
      other languages but those versions don't need to be literal
      translations.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Wherever values of properties are expressed with either type of string,
    the property can be repeated with translations in the case of free text
    and with parallel versions in case of named entities. For free text, the
    language tag is mandatory. For named entities, the language tag is
    optional and should only be provided if the parallel version of the name
    is strictly associated with a particular language. For example, the name
    "European Union" has parallel versions in all official languages of the
    union, while a name like "W3C" is not associated with a particular
    language and has no parallel versions.</p>

    <p>How multilingual information is handled by the receiver applications,
    for example in indexing and user interfaces, is outside of the scope of
    this Application Profile.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
