<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="lam-skos-ap-introduction">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <body>
        <p>This document defines the application profile for Legal Analisys Methodology assets
            managed using VocBench3<fn> Stellato, A., Fiorelli, M., Turbati, A., Lorenzetti, T., Van
                Gemert, W.,Dechandon, D., Laaboudi-Spoiden, C., Gerencser, A., Waniart,
                A.,Costetchi, E., and Keizer, J. (forthcoming). VocBench 3: a Collab-orative
                Semantic Web Editor for Ontologies, Thesauri and Lexicons.Semantic Web journal.
                    <xref format="html"
                    href="http://www.semantic-web-journal.net/content/vocbench-3-collaborative-semantic-web-editor-ontologies-thesauri-and-lexicons-1"
                    scope="external">link</xref></fn>. <term>VocBench3</term> is a web-based,
            multilingual, collaborative development platform for managing OWL ontologies, SKOS(XL)
            thesauri and generic RDF datasets. <term>SKOS</term> is a common data model for sharing
            and linking knowledge organization systems via the Web. The SKOS data model provides a
            standard, low-cost migration path for porting existing knowledge organization systems to
            the Semantic Web. SKOS also provides a lightweight, intuitive language for developing
            and sharing new knowledge organization systems. It may be used on its own, or in
            combination with formal knowledge representation languages such as the Web Ontology
            language (OWL)<fn>Bechhofer, S., &amp; Miles, A. (2009). SKOS Simple Knowledge
                Organization System Reference. <xref format="html"
                    href="https://www.w3.org/TR/skos-reference/" scope="external"
                    >https://www.w3.org/TR/skos-reference/</xref></fn>.</p>
        
        <p>An <term>Application Profile</term> (AP) is a specification that
            re-uses terms from one or more base standards, adding more specificity by
            identifying mandatory, recommended and optional elements to be used for a
            particular application, as well as recommendations for controlled
            vocabularies to be used.</p>
        
        <p>The Application Profile specified in this document is based on the
            specification of the Simple Knowledge Organization System (SKOS). SKOS is
            an <xref format="html" href="https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-concepts/"
                scope="external"><term>RDF</term></xref><fn>Wood, D., Lanthaler, M., &amp;
                    Cyganiak, R. (2014). RDF 1.1 Concepts and Abstract Syntax.</fn> vocabulary
            designed to facilitate interoperability between controlled vocabularies
            published on the Web as Linked Open Data. Additional classes and
            properties from other well-known vocabularies are re-used where
            necessary.</p>
        
        <p>The work does not cover implementation issues like mechanisms to edit
            or publish metadata assets and expected behaviour of systems implementing
            the Application Profile other than what is defined in the Conformance
            Statement.</p>
        
        <p>The Application Profile is intended to facilitate controlled
            vocabularies exchange and therefore the classes and properties defined in
            this document are only relevant for the controlled vocabularies to be
            exchanged; there are no requirements for communicating systems to
            implement specific technical environments. The only requirement is that
            the systems can export and import data in RDF in conformance with this
            Application Profile.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
