<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="ont-req-requirements">
  <title>Requirements</title>

  <body>
    <section><title>Non-functional requirements</title><ol>
        <li>The ontology should support multilingual content in at least
        English, French, German, Spanish and Italian languages. </li>

        <li>The ontology must be based on the international, European or
        de-facto standards in existence or under development.</li>

        <li>The ontology should be documented in an intuitive human friendly
        manner. </li>
      </ol></section>

    <section><title>Functional requirements</title><ol>
        <li>What is the a name legal document type? Draft communication, draft
        directive</li>

        <li>What is the class notation/code if any is assigned? 5_XC_OJL,
        5_PC_EUR</li>

        <li>What are the comments, examples, notes and other editorial remarks
        of a legal document class? Examples, change notes, history notes.
        </li>

        <li>How is the class of legal documents defined? ... is a preparatory
        act of the commission which ...</li>

        <li>How can be a legal document be classified using other existing
        classifications? resource-type:REG_DRAFT, cdm:act_preparatory</li>

        <li>What are the hints for classifying a legal document? Keyword:
        "draft regulation", author: commission</li>

        <li>To which groups document classes belong? Classification level
        1/2/3</li>

        <li>Which properties can be used to describe a legal document?
        Specific CDM properties</li>

        <li>How is the property named ? Date of transposition, Date of
        signature </li>

        <li>What is the formal path of the property? cdm:date_transposition,
        cdm:resource_legal_date_signature </li>

        <li>What are the comments, examples, notes and other editorial remarks
        of a property describing legal document? Examples, change notes,
        history notes.</li>

        <li>What constraints does the property have? Cardinality constraints,
        range constraints </li>

        <li>What are the values of the constraints for a particular property
        on a particular class? min cardinality 0, max cardinality 1, value
        range restricted to FD 14 only, </li>

        <li>How can the constraints be expressed in a human friendly manner?
        Human friendly text expressing the constraints all together generated
        using a string template.</li>

        <li>What annotations does the property have?
        ann:comment_on_legal_basis, ann:type_of_link_target </li>

        <li>What value restrictions does the annotation of a propriety has?
        at:fd_370, at:subdivision</li>

        <li>What value restrictions does the annotation of a specific property
        on a specific class? The annotation Comment on date of the property
        Date Document must be fd_365:DATADOPT for the Draft regulation
        document type. </li>

        <li>What is the property notation/code if any is assigned? ANN_COD ,
        AF, DP, LF</li>

        <li>To which groups property belongs? Classification level 1/2</li>
      </ol></section>
  </body>
</topic>
