<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="req-lam-context1">
  <title>Use cases</title>

  <body>
    <p>There are several use cases motivating the current modelling exercise.
    This section briefly briefly describes them.</p>

    <section><title>Maintenance of the LAM description</title><p>Currently LAM
    is maintained as a set of Word and Excel documents, this makes the editing
    cumbersome and most importantly error prone. Making references to formal
    properties in CDM ontology, manually tracking rules and dependencies
    between LAM elements becomes increasingly difficult as it becomes larger.
    Moreover, sharing the documents, collecting input and the interaction with
    stakeholders and partners becomes difficult. </p><p>There is a need for
    providing an interactive documentation of Legal Analysis Methodology,
    which should include a complete description of document classes,
    properties, metadata and constraints; and enable an easy navigation based
    on the dependencies between them. This interactive documentation should
    also enable collecting feedback, corrections and suggestions for
    improvement on any part of the methodology. It should serve as the main
    point of access for the LAM for consultation purposes for both experts and
    lay people. </p><p> </p></section>

    <section><title>Modelling and structuring LAM
    description</title><p>Because currently LAM is described in purely
    informal manner it is not possible to automate or implement any automated
    processes relying on it. To enable automatisation of any sort the domain
    model must be created first and formalised in a machine readable format.
    The model provides a vocabulary for describing LAM concepts and the
    structural connections between them </p><p/></section>

    <section><title>Consistency checking of the LAM description</title><p>It
    is not easy to verify whether the text document </p><p/></section>

    <section><title>Curation of existing/legacy document
    descriptions</title><p/></section>

    <section><title>Assist/guide creation of the document
    descriptions</title><p/></section>

    <section><title>Automatic validation of the document
    descriptions</title><p/><p/></section>
  </body>
</topic>
